1. Uses of Git
Git is used to tracking changes in the source code.
Distributed version control tool used for source code management.
Allows multiple developers to work together.
Supports non-linear development because of its thousands of parallel branches.

2. Features of Git
Free and open-source
Tracks history
Supports non-linear development
Creates backup
Scalable
Supports collaboration
Branching is easier
Distributed development.

3. Git WorkFlow
In Git, the workflow is mainly divided into three areas -

Working directory - This is the area where you modify your existing files.
Staging area (Index) - In this, the files in your working directory are staged and
snapshots are added.
Git directory or repository - It is basically where you perform all the changes
that need to be made i.e. perform commits to branch, checkout branch, make
changes etc.
4. Install Git: Installation in Windows/Linux/Mac OS X
Install Git on Windows -
Download the latest version of Git from here.
Aȅer starting the installer, follow the command on the screen and press Next to
complete the installation.
Open Command Prompt and run the following command to configure Git on
your PC using your username and email.
$ git config --global user.name "username"
$ git config --global user.email "user_emails@interviewbit.com"
This configures Git on your PC with your username and email.

Install Git on Linux -
You can install Git on Linux using the command apt-get :
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install git

5. Git Clone
git clone is a command which is used to clone or copy a target repository.
The following image shows an illustration of the git clone command. Using the
command, a copy of the original repository is created.
How to clone a repository?
Open Github and navigate to the target repository which needs to be cloned.
Under the repo name, click on the tab Clone or Download.
An option named Clone with HTTPS appears.
Copy the Clone URL.
Open a command line and use the command: git clone <repo_URL>




In this way, a clone of the target repository can be made.
Clone a specific branch from the repository.
A very useful feature of the git clone is that it allows cloning a specific branch of the
target repository without having to clone the entire repository.
To clone a specific branch, you need to use the command -b to specify the branch.
The following command is used:
git clone -b <Branch_name> <Repo_URL>


6. Git Branch
A branch in Git is used to keep your changes until they are ready.
You can do your work on a branch while the main branch(main) remains stable.
Aȅer you are done with your work, you can merge it to the main branch.
For creating a new branch, the following command is used :
git branch <branch_name>



10. Git Checkout
The Git checkout is used to command Git on which branch changes have to be made.
Checkout is simply used to change branches in repositories. It can also be used to
restore files.

The following image describes the scenario of creating different branches and
switching to a brach when needed, i.e. we can switch from the main brach to a
different branch and vice versa.

Git Checkout Branch
To checkout or create a branch, the following command can be used:
git checkout -b <branch_name>
This will simply switch to the new branch branch_name.
Git Checkout Tag
While working on a large codebase, it because easy to have some reference point.
That is where the checkout tag is used.
The following command is used to specify the tagname as well as the branch that
will be checked out.
git checkout tag</tag> <branch_name>


